# Adventure
Python based designed text adventure 

Name: Venkata Santosh Gouranga Khande 

Project: Text Adventure game

Stevens email: vkhande4@stevens.edu

Github URL: https://github.com/kvsg45/Adventure.git

To play the game save adventure.py file and map.json files in a local directory and execute python3 adventure.py map.json command in terminal

Estimated hours spent on the project: 16

Description for Testing the code:

The code is tested with all the possibilities of the extensions designed.
Everytime the player enters 'quit' or sends EOF Interrupt, the game quits and the program is terminated
If the given input is an Keyboard interrupt, Player will be asked whether to quit or resume the game. If given 'quit', program is terminated
For each extension's input, it is tested by giving spaces at beginning, end and middle and also at various positions CAPS. no issues faced in this scenario
Tested every possibility in winning the game and losing since it is decieded by player's score in the final stage of the game
picked up items from one room and dropped it in other room. No issues found in this case
Tested my game with other maps, No issues found in this case, since all object elements are imported from the external maps


Bugs:

1. Faced issues while processing player inputs to remove whitespaces in between. 
2. Faced issues while designing maths quiz during the last stage of game. Not able to implement recursively.
3. Faced issues while catching interrupts from the inner functions (not the main function)
4. Faced issues while updating room items when picked and dropped in another room
5. Faced issues while implementing the winning condition of the game
6. Faced issues in executing the commands when given in abbrevation forms

Resolved:
1. Resolved it by using strip() method which removes multiple whitespaces between strings
2. Resolved it by tracking the questions count and using it in while loop condition
3. Resolved it by adding new boolean variable 'quit_checker' and accessing it in functions where needed and exiting the game when required.
4. Resolved it by adding collected items to a new list and removing those from the room items list
5. Resolved it by using checker() function and accesing it in main function and everytime the player is asked to enter a command, the condtition is checked and then proceed to next step
6. Resolved it by using dictionaries and storing the abbrevations in key's and verbs in 'values'

All encountered bugs are resolved. 

Difficult Bug:
1. Faced issues in updating the current room items.

Resolved:
1. Resolved it by creating new list in the adventure.py file and loading all the room items in a 2d list where rows are rooms and columns are items in particular row number (room number)

Gameplay:

The game name is 'Lost in the woods'. 
This is basically an escape room type of game and the player needs to complete few tasks to come out of the house
When Player enters the house, he needs to complete 2 main tasks to win the game and come out of the house
First task:
Player needs to enter his name and to complete first task, he/she needs to collect items from any of the rooms such that all collected items
names first letter should be in the entered name

Example: Entered name: HARI
Player needs to collect items which starts with 'h', 'a', 'r', 'i'
Collected items: ['hat','apple','ring','ink_bottle'] - Accepted
Collected items: ['hat','apple','ring','ink_bottle','orange','ball'] - Not Accepted (Exceeded items)
Collected items: ['hat','apple','ring'] - Not Accepted (Not satisfying the requirement)

Here, Once the player name is entered, only unique letters are taken into conisderation and player needs to collect only those items
checklist function is also designed to let the player know what items are to be collected and dropped. 

Once the player succesfully completes the task, he needs to complete a maths quiz which consisits of 3 basic questions
on Addition, Subtraciton and Multiplication with integer values range from 1 to 20. For each question, player is asked to choose which operation he/she wants to solve
Examples:
1+12
3-6
4*17
Player needs to solve atleast 2 questions out of 3 questions to win the game. or else he needs to attempt quiz again

Hence this is the gameplay and the only requirment while loading the external game maps, the following items needs to be present in any of the rooms so that the game can move forward and contain all items starting with each alphabet.
Items list:
["apple","envelope","ink_bottle","onion","umbrella","zipper","ball","drum","hat","kite","mirror","pan","ring","crayons","flag","scissors","teapot","violin","xylophone","guitar","lock","jar","necklace","quill","watch","yoyo"]

Extension 1:

This extension name is math_quiz - Task 2
It generates 3 questions to be solved by the player - Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication
The values are randomly generated by importing random function
Player is asked to solve which operation and based on that question is generated.
Example:
Your option: 1
1+2: 
Your option: 2
8-5: 
Your option: 3
12*5: 
To win the game, player needs to solve atleast 2 out of 3 correctly 
after the game, score of the player is displayed and if lost, he/she will be asked to re-attempt or quit the game.
Hence this is math quiz extension. This math quiz will be started automatically when the player completes the task 1 successfully.

Extension 2: 

This Extension name is checklist - Part of Task 1
It tells the player the items yet to collect to complete the task is he has collected less than required
It tells the player the items which needs to be dropped if the collected items exceed the requirement
This extension can be called anytime to let the player know what he needs to do exactly
Hence this is the checklist extension and is an important one which helps the Player

Extension 3:

This Extension is get
When this command is given along with the item which is present in the room, Players collects the item and puts in his inventory
When this command is given without any item after the 'get' keyword, it throws an error and tells the player to enter any item name after 'get' keyword
When player enters 'get ball' and there is no ball present in the current room he is staying, it throws an error
When player picks up any item, then the avialable item list is updated by removing the collected item.
Hence this extension is described. 

Instructions while loading external maps:

Please include the above mentioned items in any of the rooms in any number of items in each room. 
